export const description =
  'Learn everything there is to know about the Protocol API and integrate Protocol into your product.'

# SonicJs: The Fastest Headless CMS on Earth

### Run your APIs 6x Faster than Node/Express

SonicJs revolutionizes API performance, delivering an astounding average speed improvement 
of ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ **6 times faster** ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ than a standard node application.

Leveraging the unparalleled capabilities of Cloudflare's Content Delivery
Network (CDN), SonicJs takes your application's performance to new heights. By
deploying your **code and synchronizing your entire database** across
Cloudflare's vast network of over 200 nodes worldwide, SonicJs drastically
reduces network latency.

With SonicJs Headless CMS, your application's users from around the globe will
enjoy lightning-fast response times and unparalleled performance.

## How Fast is "Blazingly" Fast?

To establish a performance baseline, we will conduct a comparative analysis between SonicJs and Node.js coupled with a Postgres database, as well as Strapi, a well-known open-source Headless CMS that also leverages a Postgres database.

The purpose of this comparison is to evaluate SonicJs in contrast to a standard Node.js application operating within a server infrastructure configuration that is widely prevalent in product applications.

| Platform      | Average Response Time | Difference |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Strapi      | 342.1ms       | - baseline - |
| Node + Postgres   | 320.2ms        | 1.06x Faster|
| SonicJs   | 52.7ms        | 6.4x Faster ðŸ”¥|

The details of our performance benchmark here is available at
[here](/performance-benchmarks). This includes dataset details, EC2 setup, K6
performance test parameters, etc. The 6.4x is just a rough idea based on our
simple load tests. More comprehensive stress tests are planned for the future.

Regardless of your application's API requirements, SonicJs will be materially
faster. The more complex your application or the more data your application has,
that 6.4x could be even higher. 

## Getting Started
```text copy
git clone https://github.com/lane711/sonicjs
cd sonicjs
npm install
npm run dev
```

See full <a href="/getting-started">getting started guide here</a>.

## Why so Fast?

Cloudflare Workers is a serverless platform offered by Cloudflare that allows
developers to run their code at the edge of Cloudflare's network. This means
that the code is executed in data centers closest to the end users, resulting in
reduced latency and faster response times.

Here are a few reasons why Cloudflare Workers can be fast:

**Distributed Edge Network**: Cloudflare has a vast network of data centers
spread across the globe. When you deploy your code using Workers, it runs on
this distributed edge network. This proximity to users helps reduce the distance
and network hops between the code execution and the end users, resulting in
faster response times.

**Low Latency**: By running code at the edge, Cloudflare Workers can respond to
requests quickly, without the need to route traffic to a centralized server.
This reduces the round-trip time for requests, leading to lower latency and
faster processing.

**Optimized Architecture**: Cloudflare has optimized its infrastructure to
ensure the efficient execution of Workers. They leverage technologies like V8
isolates, a high-performance JavaScript engine, to execute code quickly.
Additionally, Cloudflare continuously invests in improving the performance of
its network and infrastructure.

**Caching and Content Delivery**: Cloudflare's edge network includes various
caching mechanisms. When you use Workers, you can leverage these caching
capabilities to store frequently accessed data or responses closer to the end
users. This reduces the need to fetch data from the origin server, resulting in
faster content delivery.

**Asynchronous Processing**: Cloudflare Workers are designed to handle requests
asynchronously. They can process multiple requests concurrently, without
blocking or waiting for previous requests to complete. This asynchronous nature
enables efficient utilization of server resources and enhances overall
performance.

It's important to note that the actual performance of Cloudflare Workers can
vary depending on various factors such as the complexity of your code, the
number of requests, the geographical distribution of your users, and the
specific use case. However, in general, Cloudflare Workers' architecture and
edge network contribute to its ability to provide fast response times and
improved performance.

## Licensing

### MIT Open Source, Free Forever

SonicJs Headless CMS, the cutting-edge content management system built for
modern web development, is proudly MIT licensed, ensuring developers have the
freedom to use, modify, and distribute the software as they see fit. What's even
better is that SonicJs Headless CMS is not only open source but also free
forever. This commitment to providing a cost-free solution empowers developers
and content creators to build exceptional digital experiences without any
financial barriers. With SonicJs Headless CMS, you can unleash your creativity
and build powerful, customized applications while enjoying the benefits of a
reliable, feature-rich, and freely accessible CMS platform.

## Scalability

SonicJs comes "web scale" out of the box.

## Hosting

Hosting your headless CMS with SonicJs on Cloudflare Workers not only delivers
exceptional performance but also offers an economical solution for your hosting
needs. With Cloudflare's serverless platform, you can benefit from a
pay-as-you-go pricing model, ensuring cost efficiency and eliminating the need
for provisioning and managing dedicated servers. SonicJs on Cloudflare Workers
leverages the global infrastructure of Cloudflare, enabling you to distribute
your content and APIs across their extensive network of over 200 locations
worldwide, all at an affordable cost. By combining the power of SonicJs and
Cloudflare Workers, you can enjoy the advantages of a highly scalable and
reliable CMS solution without breaking the bank. 
Say goodbye to expensive hosting fees and embrace the cost-effective hosting
capabilities provided by SonicJs and Cloudflare Workers.

Cloudflare offers a generous free plan which included 100k requests per day.
Enterprise plans start at $5 per month. See pricing here: <a target="_blank" href="https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/developer-platform/">https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/developer-platform/</a>

